# RedDrumSIA
Data and code for the project lead by Mr. Corbin Bennetts when a graduate student at the University of Southern Mississippi's Gulf Coast Research Laboratory.

Abstract
Red Drum (Sciaenops ocellatus) support a popular recreational and small commercial fishery in Mississippi’s state waters. They are conspicuous predators in nearshore ecosystems of the Gulf of Mexico. Red Drum exhibit variable ontogenetic migration patterns; immature fish inhabit upper estuaries and coastal areas, prior to moving offshore to join the spawning stock after maturation. In this study, we evaluate stable isotope contrasts to understand age- (and age-stage), length-, and reproductive status-specific composition of muscle tissue. Using a Random Forest predictive model, we find that variables age, total length, and location have the greatest importance for describing contrast in isotope values while maturity, reproductive phase, and sex were less important predictors. We show, using a bootstrap resampling, that the mean and variance of δ15N and variance of δ13C was significantly different between fish younger than age-7 and those older. When accounting for an assumed lag in tissue turnover rate of approximately one year, the isotopic difference in Red Drum at age-7 roughly coincides with the age of spawning capability. Using standard ellipse area and niche overlap metrics we find that the age 7+ y group has the smallest ellipse area but that its probability of overlap with Charter, Island, and Nearshore Bayou 0 to 6 y groups was generally high. Our findings inform the estimated age of ontogenetic migration for Red Drum, and thus will inform the assessment and management of the stock and fishery.
